Let's bring together some of what we
learned about operators with coercion and
look at another way that these
concepts can be used to our advantage
in a pattern that's commonly used,
again, in many libraries, frameworks,
and other good JavaScript code.
I again have a blank app.js file, and
I'm gonna create a new simple
function called greet.
And it's going to take
a name as a parameter.
And what it's going to do
is simply say console.log(
'Hello' + name), and
then I'm going to call greet.
And I'll pass my name, Tony.
All right.
Let's run this.
And it says, Hello Tony.
Pretty simple.
But what if I called greet
without a parameter?
Unlike many programming languages,
JavaScript doesn't care.
This won't throw an error.
It will simply pass nothing to name.
So, if I console.log name, and
then this, let's see what happens.
Look.
Kind of as we expected, right?
Undefined.
Because what happens when
the function is invoked?
A new execution context is created,
and this variable,
which is essentially created inside the
function though the value is passed during
its invocation, is initially set when
the memory space is set up to undefined.
So JavaScript simply
ignores the fact that I'd
called the function without the expected
parameters and simply says, that's okay.
It's undefined.
It's already in memory.
It has a value, and
you simply didn't give me a new one.
And then that Hello,
well look what happened there.
That's a problem.
You see, the plus operator,
when it saw a string and undefined,
that's the value and name.
It coerced name,
the undefined primitive type,
to a string, and so it literally
coerced it to the string undefined.
And then put them together,
concatenated them.
That is not ideal behavior, but
it isn't totally unexpected
behavior in that we now understand
how operators and coercion works.
But, what should we do?
What if I want a default value for
this parameter?
Well, the next version of JavaScript ES
6 is actually going to introduce syntax
to set the default value.
But if you look at current JavaScript
code, in a lot of legacy code inside a lot
of software, you'll see a neat trick for
setting a default value.
So, I can say that name equals name,
or, and
then I'll put let's say your name here.
Let's say that's my default value.
So, what's going to happen if nothing,
if undefined, ends up being the value
of name when the function is called?
Well remember that operators are just
functions that return values.
So what does the or
operator in JavaScript return when
you pass different parameters to it?
It actually does something kind of neat.
It doesn't just return true or false.
Let's take a look.
If I clear this,
what if I tried true or false?
Well it returns true.
That makes sense.
If I returned undefined or hello,
it doesn't return true or false.
It returns hello.
It returns, in this case,
the value that can be coerced to true.
Because if I coerce hello,
a nonempty string, it's true.
So that's what the or method returns.
If I put hi and hello, it gives me hi
because it will just return the first one.
That coerced to true.
So, the or operator's special behavior,
in that if you pass to it two values
that can be coerced to true and
false, it will return the first
one that coerces to true.
One can be converted to true,
zero converts to false when
converting to Boolean.
So I can use the or to say,
if something does not exist or
is an empty string or is a null,
give me this back instead.
Null or hello.
Empty string or hello.
See how that works?
Operators are functions
that return values.
That's why I can use this line of code and
say, well,
name is equal to name, the value that I
currently have, or some default value.
And what will happen,
if name is undefined, or empty string,
or null, then this or
function, this operator,
returns the default value
to this equals operator.
So what will happen is, or
will be run before equals because
if I look at my precedents,
the Assignment operator equals
has a lower precedence than or.
So or is run first.
So or is run.
If this is undefined I'm going to
end up returning this value, and
then the equals is run.
So, let me call greet twice.
Greet ('Tony'), and
then greet, no parameter.
When Tony is passed, this will be true,
because it's not an empty string or
undefined, so
the string Tony will coerce to true.
And that's what will be
returned from this or.
So name will still be set equal to Tony,
just set equal to Tony again.
And the second time, this is undefined.
So the or operator overturned this value,
which will be set equal to name.
So what would I expect to see?
Hello Tony, and then what?
In the second call.
Let's look.
That's right.
Hello Tony and then Hello
the default value, Your name here.
So I used this one line or
expression to set a default value.
Now, I could've done this with an if
statement, but that's a lot more typing.
This is a pretty neat and
clear trick that makes your code very
readable when you understand it.
Now you still have to
be careful with zero.
If I was to call greet and pass the number
zero that converts to false also.
So I'd get the default value again.
So, you do have to be
careful about zero again.
But nonetheless, that's a side case.
In most cases, this is just fine to do and
is really a neat thing that
you can do in JavaScript.